docs/svelte-testing-library/api.mdx, before:

---
id: api
title: API
sidebar_label: API
---

- [`@testing-library/dom`](#testing-library-dom)
- [`render`](#render)
- [`cleanup`](#cleanup)
- [`act`](#act-async)
- [`fireEvent`](#fireevent-async)

---

## `@testing-library/dom`

This library re-exports everything from the DOM Testing Library
(`@testing-library/dom`). See the [documentation](queries/about.mdx) to see what
goodies you can use.

📝 `fireEvent` is an `async` method when imported from
`@testing-library/svelte`. This is because it calls [`tick`][svelte-tick] which
tells Svelte to apply any new changes to the DOM.

## `render`

```js
import {render} from '@testing-library/svelte'

const view = render(YourComponent, {ComponentOptions}, {RenderOptions})
```

### Component Options

These are the options you pass when instantiating your Svelte `Component`.
Please refer to the
[Client-side component API](https://svelte.dev/docs#run-time-client-side-component-api-creating-a-component).

📝 If the only option you're passing in is `props`, then you can just pass them
in directly.

```js
// With options.
const view = render(YourComponent, {
  target: MyTarget,
  props: {myProp: 'value'},
})

// Props only.
const view = render(YourComponent, {myProp: 'value'})
```

### Render Options

| Option      | Description                                                                         | Default         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `container` | The HTML element the component is mounted into.                                     | `document.body` |
| `queries`   | Queries to bind to the container. See [within](dom-testing-library/api-within.mdx). | `null`          |

### Results

| Result       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `container`  | The HTML element the component is mounted into.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `component`  | The newly created Svelte component. Generally, this should only be used when testing exported functions, or when you're testing developer facing API's. Outside of said cases avoid using the component directly to build tests, instead of interacting with the rendered Svelte component, work with the DOM. Have a read of [Avoid the Test User](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/avoid-the-test-user) by Kent C. Dodds to understand the difference between the **end user** and **developer user**. |
| `debug`      | Logs the `container` using [prettyDom](dom-testing-library/api-debugging.mdx/#prettydom).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `unmount`    | Unmounts the component from the `target` by calling `component.$destroy()`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `rerender`   | Calls render again destroying the old component, and mounting the new component on the original `target` with any new options passed in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `...queries` | Returns all [query functions](queries/about.mdx) that are bound to the `container`. If you pass in `query` arguments than this will be those, otherwise all.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## `cleanup`

> This is called automatically if your testing framework (such as mocha, Jest or
> Jasmine) injects a global `afterEach()` function into the testing environment.
> If not, you will need to call `cleanup()` after each test.

Unmounts the component from the container and destroys the container.

📝 When you import anything from the library, this automatically runs after each
test. If you'd like to disable this then set `process.env.STL_SKIP_AUTO_CLEANUP`
to true or import `dont-clean-up-after-each` from the library.

```js
import {render, cleanup} from '@testing-library/svelte'

afterEach(() => {
  cleanup()
}) // Default on import: runs it after each test.

render(YourComponent)

cleanup() // Or like this for more control.
```

## `act` (`async`)

An `async` helper method that takes in a `function` or `Promise` that is
immediately called/resolved, and then calls [`tick`][svelte-tick] so all pending
state changes are flushed, and the view now reflects any changes made to the
DOM.

## `fireEvent` (`async`)

Calls `@testing-library/dom` [fireEvent](dom-testing-library/api-events.mdx). It
is an `async` method due to calling [`tick`][svelte-tick] which tells Svelte to
flush all pending state changes, basically it updates the DOM to reflect the new
changes.

**Component**

```html
<script>
  let count = 0

  function handleClick() {
    count += 1
  }
</script>

<button on:click="{handleClick}">Count is {count}</button>
```

**Test**

```js
import '@testing-library/jest-dom'

import {render, fireEvent, screen} from '@testing-library/svelte'

import Comp from '..'

test('count increments when button is clicked', async () => {
  render(Comp)
  const button = screen.getByText('Count is 0')

  // Option 1.
  await fireEvent.click(button)
  expect(button).toHaveTextContent('Count is 1')

  // Option 2.
  await fireEvent(
    button,
    new MouseEvent('click', {
      bubbles: true,
      cancelable: true,
    }),
  )
  expect(button).toHaveTextContent('Count is 2')
})
```

[svelte-tick]: https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte#tick

Commit message:

update the description of `rerender`
To be in line with https://github.com/testing-library/svelte-testing-library/pull/210

docs/svelte-testing-library/api.mdx, after:

---
id: api
title: API
sidebar_label: API
---

- [`@testing-library/dom`](#testing-library-dom)
- [`render`](#render)
- [`cleanup`](#cleanup)
- [`act`](#act-async)
- [`fireEvent`](#fireevent-async)

---

## `@testing-library/dom`

This library re-exports everything from the DOM Testing Library
(`@testing-library/dom`). See the [documentation](queries/about.mdx) to see what
goodies you can use.

📝 `fireEvent` is an `async` method when imported from
`@testing-library/svelte`. This is because it calls [`tick`][svelte-tick] which
tells Svelte to apply any new changes to the DOM.

## `render`

```js
import {render} from '@testing-library/svelte'

const view = render(YourComponent, {ComponentOptions}, {RenderOptions})
```

### Component Options

These are the options you pass when instantiating your Svelte `Component`.
Please refer to the
[Client-side component API](https://svelte.dev/docs#run-time-client-side-component-api-creating-a-component).

📝 If the only option you're passing in is `props`, then you can just pass them
in directly.

```js
// With options.
const view = render(YourComponent, {
  target: MyTarget,
  props: {myProp: 'value'},
})

// Props only.
const view = render(YourComponent, {myProp: 'value'})
```

### Render Options

| Option      | Description                                                                         | Default         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `container` | The HTML element the component is mounted into.                                     | `document.body` |
| `queries`   | Queries to bind to the container. See [within](dom-testing-library/api-within.mdx). | `null`          |

### Results

| Result       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `container`  | The HTML element the component is mounted into.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `component`  | The newly created Svelte component. Generally, this should only be used when testing exported functions, or when you're testing developer facing API's. Outside of said cases avoid using the component directly to build tests, instead of interacting with the rendered Svelte component, work with the DOM. Have a read of [Avoid the Test User](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/avoid-the-test-user) by Kent C. Dodds to understand the difference between the **end user** and **developer user**. |
| `debug`      | Logs the `container` using [prettyDom](dom-testing-library/api-debugging.mdx/#prettydom).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `unmount`    | Unmounts the component from the `target` by calling `component.$destroy()`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `rerender`   | Calls [$set](https://svelte.dev/docs/client-side-component-api#$set) on the component. `rerender` takes in an option object just like `render`, but only the `props` key will be used.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `...queries` | Returns all [query functions](queries/about.mdx) that are bound to the `container`. If you pass in `query` arguments than this will be those, otherwise all.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## `cleanup`

> This is called automatically if your testing framework (such as mocha, Jest or
> Jasmine) injects a global `afterEach()` function into the testing environment.
> If not, you will need to call `cleanup()` after each test.

Unmounts the component from the container and destroys the container.

📝 When you import anything from the library, this automatically runs after each
test. If you'd like to disable this then set `process.env.STL_SKIP_AUTO_CLEANUP`
to true or import `dont-clean-up-after-each` from the library.

```js
import {render, cleanup} from '@testing-library/svelte'

afterEach(() => {
  cleanup()
}) // Default on import: runs it after each test.

render(YourComponent)

cleanup() // Or like this for more control.
```

## `act` (`async`)

An `async` helper method that takes in a `function` or `Promise` that is
immediately called/resolved, and then calls [`tick`][svelte-tick] so all pending
state changes are flushed, and the view now reflects any changes made to the
DOM.

## `fireEvent` (`async`)

Calls `@testing-library/dom` [fireEvent](dom-testing-library/api-events.mdx). It
is an `async` method due to calling [`tick`][svelte-tick] which tells Svelte to
flush all pending state changes, basically it updates the DOM to reflect the new
changes.

**Component**

```html
<script>
  let count = 0

  function handleClick() {
    count += 1
  }
</script>

<button on:click="{handleClick}">Count is {count}</button>
```

**Test**

```js
import '@testing-library/jest-dom'

import {render, fireEvent, screen} from '@testing-library/svelte'

import Comp from '..'

test('count increments when button is clicked', async () => {
  render(Comp)
  const button = screen.getByText('Count is 0')

  // Option 1.
  await fireEvent.click(button)
  expect(button).toHaveTextContent('Count is 1')

  // Option 2.
  await fireEvent(
    button,
    new MouseEvent('click', {
      bubbles: true,
      cancelable: true,
    }),
  )
  expect(button).toHaveTextContent('Count is 2')
})
```

[svelte-tick]: https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte#tick
